Refactoring the scripts (#11)
tensorleap/tensorleap: examples/mnist/README.md

# MNIST

> 

Reviewer: Include a short description of the MNIST digit classifier task. You can see what we had written in the introduction:
https://docs.tensorleap.ai/guides-and-tutorials/mnist-guide

We show an example of building a cnn network trained on MNIST dataset.

This example includes the following steps:

- Loading MNIST dataset and do some very basic preprocessing
- Building a CNN network using tensorflow keras modules
- Sanity Check: testing the (untrained) model prediction inference on local environment.
- Setting up Leap env
- Integrate the model and dataset into the TL.

> 

Reviewer: I understand what you mean about this, but I am not sure that a user could understand what you mean.
Either we are explaining each of these steps, or we should remove this, or replace it with a more relevant points.

The model achieved accuracy of 0.98~. 

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding a short section about data integration. Explaining that in this example we are reading the mnist dataset from a public Google Cloud Storage bucket.

Author: Not sure if it will be TMI. I reckon it's better to explain the data integration in the main folder

<img alt="img_10.png" height="500" src="images/img_1.png" width="800"/>

# Error Analysis

<img alt="img.png" height="400" src="images/img_3.png" width="600"/> <img alt="img.png" height="400" src="images/img_4.png" width="600"/>

**Sample 11701:** Prediction: 6, GT: 5

- The loss on that sample is relatively higher than the other samples. From metadata, we get that the sample is closer to 6 class (6.83) than its GT - 5 (7.71). That is why the model predicted the sample to be 6. 

### Average Euclidean Difference Metadata and Average Loss

<img alt="img_16.png" src="images/img_6.png"/>

- When the euclidean difference of a sample from its class centroid, increases, the average loss increases. 

- Euclidean difference from the class centroid is calculated as follows: 
  - We extract the class centroid per class: we take all images in respect to their class and calculate an average per pixel. The output will be an image 28X28.     
  - Per sample, we calculate the euclidean difference from its class centroid. 
  

### Results

> 

Reviewer: What do we see in the results below.
Also, consider adding a short summary at the end about what we had covered in this example.

![img.png](images/img_5.png)

> 

Reviewer: Have we decided not to include heatmaps in this example?

Author: I've added your video

# MNIST

We show an example of building a cnn network trained on MNIST dataset. 

The MNIST database (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology database) is a database of handwritten digits often used for training various image processing systems. 

In this example, we integrate the MNIST dataset into Tensorleap (TL) and build a simple classification model. 

> We demonstrate how we can analysis the model predictions using TL.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure but think that we need to use the verb form over there
```suggestion
We demonstrate how we can analyze the model predictions using TL.
```

> In this example, we integrate the MNIST dataset into Tensorleap (TL) and build a simple classification model. 
> We demonstrate how we can analysis the model predictions using TL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we integrate the MNIST dataset into Tensorleap and build a simple classification model. 
We demonstrate how we can analysis the model predictions using Tensorleap.
```

<img alt="img.png" height="400" src="images/img_2.png" width="700"/>

There is still a nice separation, however, with more high error loss samples. 
Interesting, those false predictions (larger dot size) are located within clusters of classes which are different than their GT.  

In the digits image space there are some classes which are close to each other. For example, class 1 and class 7 tends to look alike. We can see that from the population exploration plot below, these classes samples are closer 
to each other and there are some false prediction between the samples on the edge. Samples in light blue are from class 1 and the peach colored are from 7.

<img alt="img_10.png" height="500" src="images/img_1.png" width="800"/>

# Error Analysis

<img alt="img.png" height="400" src="images/img_3.png" width="600"/> <img alt="img.png" height="400" src="images/img_4.png" width="600"/>

**Sample 11701:** Prediction: 6, GT: 5

- The loss on that sample is relatively higher than the other samples. From metadata, we get that the sample is closer to 6 class (6.83) than its GT - 5 (7.71). That is why the model predicted the sample to be 6. 

## Sample Analysis 

> TL allow us to further explore the model's response to a specific sample. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tensorleap allows us to further explore the model's response to a specific sample. 
```

For example, from the results below, we can see that the model's prediction was 9 while the ground truth is 8.  
Additionally, we can see which features of the data contribute to each of the output classes using the Heat Map option.

<img alt="Watch the video" height="350" src="https://1081945985-files.gitbook.io/~/files/v0/b/gitbook-x-prod.appspot.com/o/spaces%2F9UXeOlFqlw8pl79U2HGU%2Fuploads%2FGyA3pV9MZcFQgfbifJf6%2Fanalysis-prediction-heatmap-small.gif?alt=media&amp;token=9c629d9b-6e0a-405c-8c01-e79e41acb505" width="750"/>

## Fetch Similars

Using 'Fetch Similars' functionality, we can find cluster of samples that the model considers as similar to one another, as they "activate" similar learnt features within the model.

<img alt="img.png" height="550" src="images/img_9.png" class="center" width="900"/>

**Fetch Similar Results**

<img alt="img.png" height="350" src="images/img_10.png" width="550"/> <img alt="img_1.png" height="350" src="images/img_11.png" width="350"/>

# Results Analysis

> By using TL Dashboard functionality, we can plot the training progress, visualize the metadata vs performance to find correlations and trends.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using Tensorleap Dashboard functionality, we can plot the training progress as well as visualize how key performance metrics distributed over various metadata to find correlations and trends.  
```

**Average Euclidean Difference Metadata and Average Loss**

> We plot the samples' average loss vs the samples' Euclidean difference metadata (per class). We expect that for samples that are further than their class average examplar, the loss will be higher. Consequently, the network will be less capable of generalizing on these deviated samples.

Reviewer 2: I fixed the possession s here and what do you feel about using the term `distributed` here?
```suggestion
We plot how sample's loss distributed over the sample's Euclidean difference metadata (per class). We expect that for samples that are further than their class average exemplar, the loss will be higher. Consequently, the network will be less capable of generalizing on these deviated samples.
```

Author: I agree, I changed to  'ditributed'. However, regarding possession, it depends if we refer to the samples as plural or as sample singular. For me, the plural version is better. But it I truly believe it doesn't matter much. So if you wish I can change it :)

Reviewer 2: Yep you are right, and I agree the plural version sounds better :)

<img alt="img_16.png" src="images/img_6.png"/>

> - We see the trend in line with our expectations, as the Euclidean difference increases, the average loss increases. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We see the trend in line with our expectations, as the Euclidean difference increases, the loss increases. 
```

- The Euclidean difference from the class examplar is calculated as follows: 
  - We extract the class centroid per class: we take all images with respect to their class and calculate an average per pixel. The output will be a 28x28 image.     
  - Per sample, we calculate the Euclidean difference from its class centroid.

**Loss and Accuracy Plots**

We plot the model Loss Accuracy for training and validation sets during training iterations:

![img.png](images/img_5.png)

There is a nice convergence of the model, achieving accuracy of ~0.98 on validation set.  

> We have shown a few examples of the model analysis and insights we can gain using TL. Nevertheless, we only begin to scratch the surface with the potential capabilities and wisdom we can achieve using the platform. For further examples, please refer to our additional examples and tutorials. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have shown a few examples of the model analysis and insights we can gain using Tensorleap. Nevertheless, we have only begun to scratch the surface with the potential capabilities and wisdom we can achieve using the platform. For further examples, please refer to our additional examples and tutorials. 
```
